[Music]
What should I do?
I am in a situation where I
must choose between admitting
a mistake I made which makes
me kind of uncomfortable
or concealing the error
which might put our
organization at risk.
I wonder if you have ever been
in a comparable position?
It can happen to a lot of us.
Here is the situation.
I don't want to carry around
two separate cell phones,
so I decided to put some
of my work information
on my personal cell phone,
things like my work email,
client contact information
and important documents
that I use frequently.
This has made my
work-life much easier.
So the other day while waiting
on a client for a meeting
I decided to download
an app for fun,
but as soon as I had
done so I realized
that by agreeing to the
terms of use I provided
my consent for the app to access
all of the data on my phone
including all of my
organization's information.
Now I am wondering,
do I report this since it
is my personal phone
and possibly get
myself into trouble
for exposing our
organization's information
or do I not say anything,
hoping that there is no
data stolen from my phone,
knowing that doing so puts
the organization at risk?
I am nervous and
not sure what to do!
As it turned out, once
I thought things through,
the solution became clear.
Maybe hearing about my
decision-making process
might help you in a
similar situation.
The issue at hand is information
security, which has to do
with the steps we take
to protect electronic
and physical information,
as well as to
ensure the integrity
of our technology systems.
Given the amount of sensitive
and valuable information
I have stored on my laptop,
including both personally
identifiable information
and our organization's
intellectual property,
I know it's important to protect
against security breaches.
Without taking adequate measures
to protect against them,
my organization and I both
become vulnerable
to unauthorized
individuals who may steal,
modify, disclose
or even destroy valuable information.
Information security requires
being constantly vigilant
to those trying to compromise
our systems and data.
Examples include
social engineers
or people trying
to manipulate us
into divulging
confidential information
or allowing unauthorized
access to our systems.
This could be a
caller pretending
to be someone in a
position of authority
or someone you think you
can trust sending you
an email encouraging you
to download new software.
In the latter situation
this phishing email
may contain downloads
and links infected
with malware or viruses,
programs designed to gather
usernames and passwords,
destroy content,
steal trade secrets or
even lock systems
in exchange for ransom.
We should always be alert to
anyone attempting to gain
access to our systems,
data or facilities.
Even when our devices are locked,
experienced hackers
can enter systems
if they have physical
access and enough time.
In unsecured public settings
such as airports, hotels,
restaurants or coffee shops
unscrupulous actors
can create fake hotspots
and use them to
hack into personal accounts
to track key strokes, steal
data or inject malware
or viruses into our computers.
Consequences of these
actions can be severe
and can range from
loss of time, money
and productivity to
loss of credibility
and competitive advantage
to legal liability.
Steps that we can take to
maintain information security
include making timely system
updates and routinely
running preapproved
antivirus applications,
only downloading items
from trusted sources,
locking computer, laptop
and phone screens when
they are not in use.
Using complex passwords and
changing them regularly,
keeping passwords private,
never leaving
devices unattended
and encrypting confidential
information sent by email.
And if you encounter a suspected
or confirmed security breach,
you should report it to the
IT department immediately
so it can be
addressed right away.
In summary, protecting
information security means
knowing what it is, knowing
the steps to take to prevent
a breach of our systems
and promptly reporting
security breaches
or concerns to the
IT department.
Going back to the situation
involving downloading the app
on my personal cell phone, it's
probably evident that I decided
that I needed to inform someone
in our organization of
what I had done.
Although I was embarrassed
about admitting
how careless I had been,
I knew that I had to tell
our IT department
so they could take measures
to minimize the risks of our
organization's information
falling into the
wrong hands.
I feel much better now
and I hope you do too!
If you have any questions
about information security
or other compliance issues,
please contact our IT
or Compliance department.
They can provide expert guidance
in all kinds of situations.
[Music]